0.9.0 (#149)
ethteck/splat: CHANGELOG.md

# splat Release Notes

## 0.9.0: The Big Update
### Introducing [spimdisasm](https://github.com/Decompollaborate/spimdisasm)!

> * Thanks to [AngheloAlf](https://github.com/AngheloAlf), we now have a much better MIPS disassembler in splat! spimdisasm has much better hi/lo matching, much lower ram usage, and is just overall grood.

Reviewer: I figured `grood` was an ethan-ism from knowing your style a bit but it may be confusing to others :smile:

Author: oh lol thanks for mentioning that. I think I wrote that sentence as mostly a placeholder and intended to remove "grood" later on 😁

We plan to roll this out in phases. Currently, it only handles actual code disassembly. Later on, we will probably migrate our current data assembly code to use spimdisasm as well.

> **NOTICE**: This integration has been tested on a variety of games and configurations. However, with any giant change to the platform like this, there are bound to be things we didn't catch. Please be patient with us as we handle these remaining issues. Though from what we've seen already, the slight bugs one may come across are totally worth the much improved diassembly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTICE**: This integration has been tested on a variety of games and configurations. However, with any giant change to the platform like this, there are bound to be things we didn't catch. Please be patient with us as we handle these remaining issues. Though from what we've seen already, the slight bugs one may come across are totally worth the much improved disassembly.
```

### gfx segment type

> * A new `gfx` segment type is available, which create a c file containing a disassembled display list according to the segment's start and end offsets. Thanks to [Glank](https://github.com/glankk) and [Tharo](https://github.com/thar0/) for their work on [libgfxd](https://github.com/glankk/libgfxd) and [pygfxd](https://github.com/thar0/pygfxd/), respectively, for helping make this a possibility in splat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new `gfx` segment type is available, which creates a c file containing a disassembled display list according to the segment's start and end offsets. Thanks to [Glank](https://github.com/glankk) and [Tharo](https://github.com/thar0/) for their work on [libgfxd](https://github.com/glankk/libgfxd) and [pygfxd](https://github.com/thar0/pygfxd/), respectively, for helping make this a possibility in splat.
```

### API breaking changes

> * Some Segment() arguments have changed, which may cause extensions to break. Please see the __init__ function for Segment for more details.

Reviewer 2: Is `__init__` supposed to look __init__ (**bold**)?
(markdown shenanigans)

Author: good point! needs backticks

> ### symbol_addrs.txt changes
> * symbol_addrs now supports the segment: attribute, which allows specifying the symbol's top-level segment. This can be helpful for symbol resolution when there are overlapping overlays. See `exclusive_ram_id` below for more information.

Reviewer 2: Would this improve readability a bit?
```suggestion
### symbol_addrs.txt changes
* symbol_addrs now supports the `segment:` attribute, which allows specifying the symbol's top-level segment. This can be helpful for symbol resolution when there are overlapping overlays. See `exclusive_ram_id` below for more information.
```

> * symbol_addrs now supports the `segment:` attribute, which allows specifying the symbol's top-level segment. This can be helpful for symbol resolution when there are overlapping overlays. See `exclusive_ram_id` below for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* symbol_addrs now supports the `segment:` attribute, which allows specifying the symbol's top-level segment. This can be helpful for symbol resolution when overlays use overlapping vram ranges. See `exclusive_ram_id` below for more information.
```

### Global options changes

> The new `symbol_name_format` option allows specification of how symbols will be named. This can be set as a global option and also changed per-segment. `symbol_noram_name_format` is used when the symbol does not have a rom address (BSS).

Author: we don't really have a concept of noload sections yet (eek), so yeah if a symbol doesn't have a rom address on splat's side (meaning it may literally have a rom address, but we just have that field as None for whatever reason), it'll use the "norom" format. both of these options have default values which will be used if the options aren't set

 The following substitutions are allowed:

> `$ROM` - the rom address of the symbol, hex-formatted (omitted for BSS symbols)

Reviewer: for symbols in noload sections, does this get expanded to an empty string or error?

It may be worth giving an example for each of these substitutions, as it could be `0xabc`, `0xABC`, `0Xabc`, `0XABC`, `0x000abc`, `0x000ABC`, `0X000abc`, `0X000ABC`, `abc`, `ABC`, `abc`, `ABC`, `000abc`, `000ABC`, `000abc`, `000ABC` :smiley_cat:

Author: If one tries to use $ROM in the "norom" format, for example, they'll get a big error that will explain the issue

`$VRAM` - the vram address of the symbol, hex-formatted

`$SEG` - the name of the top-level segment in which the symbol resides

The default values for these options are as follows

`symbol_name_format` : `$VRAM_$ROM`

`symbol_noram_name_format` : `$VRAM_$SEG`

The appropriate prefix string will still automatically be applied depending on the type of the symbol: `D` for data, `jtbl` for jump tables, and `func` for functions. This functionality may be customizable in the future.

----

> The `auto_all_section` option now should be a list of segment types for which linker entries are automatically added if the segment doesn't otherwise specify these types somewhere. Previously, this option was a bool, and it enabled this feature for all sections specified in `section_order`. Now, the desired sections must be specified manually. The default behavior for this option remains the same with the value `[".data", ".rodata", ".bss"]`.

Reviewer: what is a "linker entry"?

> The `auto_all_section` option now should be a list of section names (`[".data", ".rodata", ".bss"]` by default) for which linker entries are automatically added if the segment doesn't otherwise specify these types somewhere. Previously, this option was a bool, and it enabled this feature for all sections specified in `section_order`. Now, the desired sections must be specified manually. The default setting for this option retains previous behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `auto_all_section` option now should be a list of section names (`[".data", ".rodata", ".bss"]` by default) indicating the sections that should be linked from .o files built from source files (.c or asm/hasm .s files), when no subsegment explicitly indicates linking this type of section.

For example, if any subsegment of a code segment is of segment type `data` or `.data`, the `.data` section from all `c`/`asm`/`hasm` subsegments will not be linked unless explicitly indicated with a relevant `.data` subsegment.

Previously, this option was a bool, and it enabled this feature for all sections specified in `section_order`. Now, the desired sections must be specified manually. The default value for this option retains previous behavior.
```

----

> The new `mips_abi_float_regs` option allows for changing the format of float registers for MIPS disassembly. The default value does not change any prior behavior, but `o32` is heavily encouraged and may become the default option in the future. For more information, see this [great writeup](https://gist.github.com/EllipticEllipsis/27eef11205c7a59d8ea85632bc49224d)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new `mips_abi_float_regs` option allows for changing the format of float registers for MIPS disassembly. The default value does not change any prior behavior, but `o32` is heavily encouraged and may become the default option in the future. For more information, see this [great writeup](https://gist.github.com/EllipticEllipsis/27eef11205c7a59d8ea85632bc49224d).
```

----

> The new `gfx_target` option allows for specifying the target for the graphics macro format, which is used in the gfx segment type. The default is `f3dex2`.

Author: Yeah, I considered that people may want to provide different settings per gfx segment. I'll gladly add that as an option when the need arises
